a town is a bit like a living thing
with various essential organs each doing
their crucial job
it takes a lot of effort as well as
people to maintain any town
without these things it could disappear
imagine
you're the only person living in a town
to keep things running you'd have to
deal with
lots of routine stuff you might not ever
have thought about before
things like money and admin duties and
lots of other complicated things you're
not used to doing
if that sounds difficult there are
actually real places like this
86 year old elsie eiler is the only
resident in the town of monoway nebraska
this makes monawi the usa's smallest
city
in population terms it was founded in
when a crucial railroad finally reached
the area
the population peaked in the 1930s with
150 residents
at the time it had several grocery
stores a restaurant
and a few other services a rusty
decaying shed
now hidden among the trees used to be
the town's jail
time passed and the population steadily
got smaller and smaller
the younger generation ventured into
bigger towns looking for better job
opportunities
by the start of the 2000s there were
only two people left
elsie and her husband rudy by then their
children had moved away a long time ago
then in 2004 rudy passed away
but a population of just one didn't mean
the town
ceased to exist unlike the famous town
of centralia
with its population of 11 monaway still
has its own zip code
and you can find it on a map the place
itself is pretty small
with a total area of around 0.2 square
miles
and being the smallest town in america
doesn't mean it lacks amenities either
there's a tavern a library and three
houses
although only one of them is occupied if
elsie needs something
she just jumps into her off-roader with
its cool license plate
mono we won and off she goes she keeps a
record of the residential lots
just in case someone wants to double or
even triple the population
and as the local bartender she serves
the best cold drinks in town
the tavern is open six days a week it
has plenty of loyal customers
some of whom elsie has known for many
years she does plenty of more serious
jobs as well
she's the town mayor and also its
treasurer the annual elections are
always advertised in the town's only
resident business
elsie's bar when the election takes
place elsie doesn't have a choice
so she votes for herself she also
personally raises up to five hundred
dollars in taxes each year
the money goes on maintaining the roads
and the town's four street lamps
well in places like los angeles and
chicago there are whole
teams of experts doing the paperwork
elsie's got this stuff covered
all by herself in monaway she also has
one other important job
she's the librarian the town's library
named in rudy's honor
has an incredible 5 000 volumes
until 2004 a tiny town named gross was
monoi's main rival in nebraska
but when monawi ended up with a
population of one
the town of gross immediately became two
times bigger
gross is a few years older than monaway
dating back to 1893.
with only five streets the town is tiny
back in the day though
those streets were pretty busy it used
to have businesses
factories and more than 600 residents
but it wasn't possible to build railways
to all the little towns in those days
and instead gross was bypassed for
another place
called ponca creek without a railway and
the jobs it brought
people gradually started leaving and
gross became pretty deserted
a major road the nearby highway 281
never reached the town either making
things even harder
there were also two big fires at the
turn of the 20th century
and several businesses closed all in all
by the 1970s
only eight people were left in gross
fast forward a few decades
and husband and wife mike and mary
finnegan are the last two people to live
there now
just like elsie and monoi they're
responsible for
all the routine work that needs to be
done in their hometown
there aren't any elections for mayor and
gross because
mary is happy to let mike do the job the
couple runs a bar and a fantastic
restaurant
where you can go for a tasty meal
including delicious indian tacos and
raisin pie
the restaurant itself has 1 000 times
more followers on facebook
than there are people in the town
nebraskan welcomes all the tourists that
want to stay overnight and explore the
town
there are actually quite a few
interesting things to take a look at
there
first of all there's an impressive
flagpole mounted in honor of the inn's
former owner
there's also a vintage water pump they
call the gross water tower
they even have a bank well it's just a
building that's been left to stand
vacant
in the local park you can still find a
vault that once belonged to the gross
state bank
before manawi and gross became the usa's
smallest towns
there was another contender named buford
in the state of wyoming
until 2008 it also had just two
residents
don sammons and his son don actually
bought the whole town in 1992
and the parcel of land covered 10 acres
and included a trading post
a post office a school a gas station and
a store
at that time there were still a few
other people around who were working at
the railroad
but they soon moved away the town is at
an elevation of eight
000 feet so it's not the most convenient
location
don had been working there as a post
officer for some time
but then the post office closed he
auctioned his town in 2012
and now there's no one left there at all
but
monoi and gross never get lonely there's
always someone passing through
nebraska is famous for having lots of
small towns
there are several others in the state
that have fewer than 15 residents
one of them is burton which is home to
only 10 people
the post office there closed long ago
and is full of abandoned buildings
living in a small rural town can be
super peaceful
but what about the most populated cities
in the world bustling tokyo is the
world's largest city by population
there are almost 38 million residents in
the greater tokyo area
that's like having the whole population
of canada crowded into 5 000 square
miles
it's so busy that the number of people
getting on the subway
increases by 200 percent during peak
times
and tokyo already has one of the largest
subway systems in the world
new delhi is the second most populous
city in the world
with over 30 million residents there are
plenty of countries that don't have that
many people
elsewhere in india even the smallest
village there has a population that's
289 times
bigger than the smallest town in america